[#565] DigiD/eHerkenning via OpenID Connect (#592)
open-formulieren/open-forms: docker/keycloak/README.md

# Keycloak infrastructure

Open Forms supports OpenID Connect as an authentication protocol. Keycloak is
an example of an Identity Provider that supports OIDC

We include a compose stack for development and CI purposes. This is **NOT** suitable
for production usage.

## docker-compose

Start a Keycloak instance in your local environment from the parent directory:

```bash
docker-compose -f docker-compose.keycloak.yml up -d
```

This brings up Keycloak, the admin interface is accessible at http://localhost:8080/.
You can log in with `demo:demo`.

## Load fixtures

Before the DigiD login via OIDC can be tested, two fixtures need to be loaded.
Assuming the docker containers specified in `docker-compose.yml` in the root directory
are running, run the following commands:

```bash
cat keycloak/fixtures/oidc_form.json | docker exec -i <openforms_container_name> src/manage.py loaddata --format=json -
cat keycloak/fixtures/oidc.json | docker exec -i <openforms_container_name> src/manage.py loaddata --format=json -

> ```

Author: I tried this locally, but (at least for me) this doesn't work with docker-compose:

```bash
$ cat docker/keycloak/fixtures/oidc_form.json | docker-compose exec web src/manage.py loaddata --format=json -
Traceback (most recent call last):
  File "/usr/bin/docker-compose", line 11, in <module>
    load_entry_point('docker-compose==1.17.1', 'console_scripts', 'docker-compose')()
  File "/usr/lib/python2.7/dist-packages/compose/cli/main.py", line 68, in main
    command()
  File "/usr/lib/python2.7/dist-packages/compose/cli/main.py", line 121, in perform_command
    handler(command, command_options)
  File "/usr/lib/python2.7/dist-packages/compose/cli/main.py", line 470, in exec_command
    pty.start()
  File "/usr/lib/python2.7/dist-packages/dockerpty/pty.py", line 338, in start
    io.set_blocking(pump, flag)
  File "/usr/lib/python2.7/dist-packages/dockerpty/io.py", line 32, in set_blocking
    old_flag = fcntl.fcntl(fd, fcntl.F_GETFL)
ValueError: file descriptor cannot be a negative integer (-1)
```

I could add a wrapper script that finds the container name with `docker inspect -f '{{.Name}}' $(docker-compose ps -q web) | cut -c2-` maybe?

> ```

Reviewer: which versions of docker and docker-compose are you on? Seeing it's showing Python 2 tracebacks, I suspect you have a very old version.

My environment, on which the commands succeeded:

```
➜  ~ docker --version
Docker version 20.10.12, build e91ed5707e
➜  ~ docker-compose --version
Docker Compose version 2.2.3
```

> ```

Author: you're right, time to upgrade locally :sweat_smile:

> ```

Reviewer: I've installed both through my package manager, I'm not sure what exactly is the recommended way on Ubuntu and if it's all available in the package repo's or not :sweat_smile:

> ```

Author: I tried with a new shell, but it seems to give the same problem. I'll just change the README and load it differently locally then :p

# Keycloak infrastructure

Open Forms supports OpenID Connect as an authentication protocol. Keycloak is
an example of an Identity Provider that supports OIDC.

We include a compose stack for development and CI purposes. This is **NOT** suitable
for production usage.

## docker-compose

Start a Keycloak instance in your local environment from the parent directory:

```bash
docker-compose -f docker-compose.keycloak.yml up -d
```

This brings up Keycloak, the admin interface is accessible at http://localhost:8080/.
You can log in with `demo:demo`.

In order to allow access to Keycloak via the same hostname via the Open Forms backend
container and the browser, add the following entry to your `/etc/hosts` file:

```
127.0.0.1 keycloak.open-forms.local
```

## Load fixtures

> Before the DigiD login via OIDC can be tested, two fixtures need to be loaded.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before the DigiD login via OIDC can be tested, a fixture needs to be loaded.
```
